remember the teacher scenario where she told the student to create something that would store the five
students data that include the roll number,name and marks that is where the oops concept comes in .

what is a class ?

        A class is a named group of properties and functions

        the properties are the name , roll number and the marks of the student we can combine it into a single
        entity known as class

        consider the teacher is telling that to create a datatype of students that has all the details

        we can do that using the class concept that we can create our own data type

        /A class is a template for an object, and an object is an instance of a class.
        /A class creates a new data type that can be used to create objects.

        class is a logical construct where object is the physical reality //this is actually something that
        occupies space in the memory

       /When you declare an object of a class, you are creating an instance of that class.
       /Thus, a class is a logical construct. An object has physical reality. (That is, an object occupies space in memory.)

Properties of an object :

    Objects are characterized by three essential properties: state, identity, and behavior.

    The state of an object is a value from its data type.

    The identity of an object distinguishes one object from another.It is useful to think of an object’s identity as the place where its value is stored in memory.

    The behavior of an object is the effect of data-type operations.

How to access the instance variable :

    The dot operator links the name of the object with the name of an instance variable.

    instance variables : variables inside the instances are known as the instance variables( for example : student1.roll_no )

    Although commonly referred to as the dot operator, the formal specification for Java categorizes the . as a separator.

    reference variables : the variables that are inside the object , the variable that actually defines the object

How to create objects ?

    The 'new' keyword dynamically allocates(that is, allocates at run time)memory for an object & returns a reference to it.

Dynamic Memory Allocation :

    This reference is, more or less, the address in memory of the object allocated by new.

    This reference is then stored in the variable.

    Thus, in Java, all class objects must be dynamically allocated.

How to manipulate the objects :

    Box my_box; // declare reference to object

         my_box = new Box(); // allocate a Box object

    The first line declares my_box as a reference to an object of type Box. At this point, my_box does not yet refer to an

    actual object. The next line allocates an object and assigns a reference to it to my_box. After the second line executes,

    you can use my_box as if it were a Box object. But in reality, my_box simply holds, in essence, the memory address of the

    actual Box object.

    The key to Java’s safety is that you cannot manipulate references as you can actual pointers.

    Thus, you cannot cause an object reference to point to an arbitrary memory location or manipulate it like an integer.

Java Constructor :

    special type of function in the class

    constructor is a special function that runs when you create an object and it allocates some variables

    default constructor  : but remember the student example the student function have not created in the class but how can be the

    function called which is when there is no function created inside a class then there will be an default

    function is created which is known as the default constructor

    A Closer Look at new:

    classname class-var = new classname ( );

    Here, class-var is a variable of the class type being created. The classname is the name of the class that is being

    instantiated. The class name followed by parentheses specifies the constructor for the class. A constructor defines

    what occurs when an object of a class is created.


